but look there are these different
voices presenting competing visions of
what these is supposed to be ethically
politically morally diet airily I mean
you know culturally as a cultural
struggle guys like Jeff Nelson and
during a writer have been I think
self-consciously asserting their voices
in that struggle in trying to form what
the future vegans are supposed to be and
there is a level on which I can respect
both of them even though ninety percent
of this video you're about to see is
very disrespectful in case you haven't
noticed in ain't news but Jeff Nelson
veg source is a liar and hypocrite he
saying izel was really frantic to get me
to make a video about a situation with
durianrider and I didn't take the bait
it's not true Jeff I never asked you to
take a stand that never I still don't
want you to because I think your content
is garbage because I have no respect for
you and I have no respect for your
channel so why would I ask you to it's
true that I made a broad you know call
to arms across the board everyone on
YouTube everyone on the internet
everyone who would hear me saying look
if we don't draw a line in the sand
against two things violence and
defamation who's going to do it if not
us then who if not now then when and
Jeff now you are saying durianrider was
one hundred percent right I fully
deserved what I got from during writer
it's used supporting during writer in
one his use of threats threats of
violence to false criminal allegations
three serious defamation Jeff this is at
the same time that you have just made a
one hour video claiming you know nobody
should be threatened with violence
nobody should be defamed trolling by
this definition has got to stop and you
are guilty of the same things you are
goddamn hypocrite I bonus yen
if you think I'm ashamed of what I've
done in the last six months you're wrong
and Jeff I think you are a shade of what
your daughters have done in the last six
months and I know that I'm right I think
you're coming on the internet and
defaming me and playing all these games
as a 60 year old man because deep down
inside when you watch a video like to
lick my body challenge you feel ashamed
but there is actually a broader and more
profound problem if everybody in the
movement is tearing each other down
because they perceive you as being
morally impure because some jackass
hypocrite lying [ __ ] like Jeff Nelson
made up the lie that you're a pervert
that he made the fam ettore allegations
this is the movement tario tell apart
over nothing in this context of
muckraking of defamation etc and you're
destroying the vegan movement before it
as a chance to even get off the ground I
bonus yen it's not an exaggeration to
say that there is a struggle going on to
shape the future of veganism I wouldn't
say it's a struggle to control the
movement as exists now because as it is
now there's barely any movement to
control but there is a struggle to
inspire and form what the future of
veganism is going to be and some people
are doing that in a self-conscious way
with a sincere concern for veganism
achieving its goals politically or even
nutritionally or in some other sense and
some people i think are sleepwalking
through it or in a state of denial about
what it is they're struggling over what
it is they're doing here on youtube or
in their own activism what have you and
beyond that there are some people who
are more or less cynically exploiting
the movement at this nation nascent
stage just to get money just to get Fame
maybe in some cases just for sex you
asked me about the use of the term fake
vegan it's used to describe people like
you because
you're a parasite on this movement
you're not making a positive
contribution you're doing your little
bit to exploit and destroy the movement
you are a fake vegan cheetah yeah that's
right and then you turned around and you
embrace durianrider and you claim that
my court case is fake when you know it's
real and you denounce me in the family
cheetah you claimed that you you
speculated that I had some kind of love
affair with a 16 year old when you know
I didn't you intentionally scraped the
bottom of the barrel for every crumb Eli
and recycled [ __ ] that you knew
during writer invented a thin air just
to get attention and yes you were on
drugs at the time you were high on
anavar and I think testosterone and you
were trying to quit faking the faint
vegan comment I'll tell you because it
explains you cheetah explains why you're
a fake vegan uh money power Fame sex
these are motivations that captivate
leaders and followers alike and I've got
to say even though I disagree with many
of the other leading voices in veganism
today even though I'm a very openly
revile their theories or their their
political claims their political
practices for being stupid let's give a
quick example that you've seen on this
channel few much for long time direct
action everywhere had a protest where
they ran onto the sports field at a
baseball stadium this is a digression
from top of this video but it's why you
said Charis language they hold this up
as a successful protest
[Music]
no they want others to be inspired by
this and emulated it's making a very
clear claim on what the future of Venus
was supposed to be and there's a level
of which because I mean they're not
sleepwalking through it there's
self-consciously articulating this as a
style of activism and a philosophy and a
set of political principles I can
respect that they're making the claim
even at the same time that I disagree
with it from my perspective that protest
is a total joke it just looks like a
couple of fans ran into the field they
had a that a banner they were trying to
unfurl that said something like go vegan
stop killing animals whatever it said
they never even really unfurled it they
interrupt the game for a couple of
seconds security pounces on them holds
them off the field I don't know if they
spend the night in prison or what the
probably pay a big fine for interrupting
a major league baseball game but look
there are these different voices
presenting competing visions of what vgs
is supposed to be ethically politically
morally diet airily I mean you know
culturally as a cultural struggle and
guys like Jeff Nelson and dairy writer
have been I think self-consciously
asserting their voices in that struggle
in trying to form what the future
beacons are supposed to be and there is
a level on which I can respect both of
them even though ninety percent of this
video you're about to see his favorite
disrespectful towards the particular
claims and ideas that they advance them
vegan today I say this because while
this video is in a sense just to drama
video this video is in a sense just
responding to controversy that's
happening right now I try to make my
videos in a way that I myself would find
interesting if I came back and watch
this five years from now or 10 years
from now in veganism we do deal with the
politics of the moment the politics of
the month but also the politics of the
millennium in many ways we're dealing
with issues and struggles here that are
going to continue not just for the
decade but for centuries and because of
their ethical wait I mean you could say
the same thing on one level just about
cigarette smoking
nobody thinks that Western civilization
is going to abolish the use of nicotine
in the next five years it's not going to
happen you can sit down look in the
mirror and ask yourself and go through
some of the statistics do you even
imagine it be possible for us to abolish
the use of nicotine in the next 50 years
is it going to be a hundred 200 500
years but the reality is nobody quit
smoking for the sake of the cigarettes
nobody quits smoking to save the tobacco
plants there are so many reasons to quit
smoking I encourage you if you still
smoke quit smoking but it's very
different from the type of ethical
struggle we're involved with in veganism
across the board because in veganism
we're not just doing it for health it's
not just about a plant-based diet it is
about ecology animal rights the human
suffering animal suffering needless
violence etc is about so many themes
that we have to deal we have to carry
the weight of every day and yeah I find
it impossible to imagine that this
struggle is going to be over in five
years or 50 years I find it a lot easier
to imagine that will still be asking
these questions in 500 years for better
and for worse with that Edmund said in
case you haven't noticed in ain't news
but Jeff Nelson veg source is a liar and
hypocrite here's Jeff Nelson trying to
be caddy and calling me out Jeff Nelson
writes on his own tumblr blog sorry if
you can see it I actually have the you
can see the image on screen here on the
edge your screen that's the fabulous
graphic detail of Jeff Nelson's tumblr
page but I am going to read out to you
Jeff's comment on me if you want to
search for it you can you can find his
tumblr and you can search for dr. evil
anonymous asks hey Jeff dr. evil is
saying your daughters are ugly and
discussing their physical appearance
period are you going to slam him the way
you did the vegan couple the profound
question for Jeff here's his a reply now
this is just a desperate move by someone
who has nothing to contribute to anyone
or anything he was really frantic to get
me to make a video about his
uation with durianrider that's a lie
uh-huh I continue the quote and I didn't
take that bait either he fully deserved
what he got from Harley and more in my
opinion his communication with me and
he's written me super long weird emails
a number of times has been deranged and
mentally ill period that's a lie he
fancies himself an intellectual but I
went to Yale and then Stanford where
there are a lot of actually intelligent
people you ain't one of them Jeff none
of them talk or act like this unemployed
loser period okay I wanted to read this
without stopping before I comment look
um Jeff your daughters are not teenagers
your daughter's a 23 years old 23 fully
grown adults and you know I really
didn't want to watch it but before
making this video I felt an
irresponsible if I didn't watch it an
example of what your daughter's do for
money on YouTube is called the lick my
body challenge video I would be deeply
ashamed if my daughter made that video I
would be ashamed of my best friend made
the video I'd be ashamed if my sister or
my aunts I would be ashamed of myself if
I made that video and at the same time
of course it'd be different if your
daughters were otherwise making a
positive contribution to veganism or if
they were making positive videos
complete recipe videos about chess or
science or the history of Polynesia
anything okay but they're not your
daughters are producing garbage content
following Instagram
Twitter itself acting and randa we and I
criticized that content and not the only
one and it's not a troll video it's an
intelligent video and I can give the
link here or whatever I still recommend
people see that video there's nothing I
regret in a video and the same video I'm
criticizing heavy hitters in the vegan
movement like Gary Francie ohne and Gary
Yourofsky long list of important names
and the video has a very clear point in
very clear message that has nothing to
do with whether or not your daughter's a
good-looking I don't see how anyone even
given you're their father if you watch
the lick my body challenge there's only
one example of many of garbage content
your daughters are producing at age 23
as fully grown adults I don't see how
anyone could watch the lick my body
challenge and then feel that your
daughter's Nina niranda are above
criticism that nobody within veganism
should day or criticize her daughters
given that they made just let's just
keep with one example to lick my body
challenge in this case you know if it
was someone else who made a very you
know considerable if vegan gains made
that video you'd see it in that cottage
said well vegan gains made this one
stupid video but he also makes videos
that are well-researched and scientific
or you know I think that's how most
people thinking gains does make some
stupid videos but they see it in the
context of him also making videos that
are well-researched absolutely important
to say etc etc right so this is the
basic point here to say I'm unemployed
well Jeff uh I just did 540 hours in the
classroom learning Chinese as a
full-time student of the Chinese
language I did five hundred forty hours
in about six months in class now
obviously this time studying and writing
essays outside of class I wouldn't call
that unemployed that's a lot more hours
than a university student does in in the
classroom with the teacher face-to-face
okay if your daughter's at age 23 they
can do the exact
same thing I did I would encourage them
to Nina and Aranda I would like to
formally say to you that you know what
your father has called me an unemployed
loser but I think would be good for your
lives if you stopped trying to play the
guitar if you stopped appearing in
commercials that promote the consumption
of meat dairy and eggs for Taco Bell and
other corporations if you stopped
whoring yourselves on youtube in the
most shameful and mind-numbingly stupid
form of entertainment possible in videos
that I genuinely do think are worse than
pornography I have much more respect for
actors who appear in real pornography
then I have for need and randa producing
their videos I think your lives would
improve if you bought an airplane ticket
to kunming china and you enrolled in
exactly the same educational program I
did you can move into the same apartment
and you studied Chinese for 540 hours it
is goddamn hard work and jeff i do not
know if you have ever in your life
worked as hard as I did during those
those six months very hard work i went
from level zero in chinese to now being
able to speak and understand chinese
chinese is not the first language you've
done that with and it was very very
difficult for me because i just
mentioned you know immediately prior to
that I was speaking Thai every day I was
in Thailand where I got into a charming
legal situation with a man named
durianrider we'll come back to that
later speaking the Thai language every
day brought back ty and low shown in
those languages to my mind and before
that you know is studying Japanese it's
very very hard to transition from
Japanese the Chinese so when I first
started working on Chinese I still had a
japanese and thai really going on in my
mind it's hard work so Jeff I appreciate
that you're choosing to completely
misrepresent my life that I'm merely an
unemployed loser if you think I'm
ashamed of what I've done in the last
six months you're wrong and Jeff I think
you are ashamed of what your daughters
have done in the last six months and I
know that I'm right I think you're
coming on the internet and defaming me
and playing all these gay
as a 60 year old man because deep down
inside when you watch a video like the
lake my body challenge you feel ashamed
I think Jeff you would be proud if I was
your son or if your son had done with
his life any other things I did and you
know what Jeff he can your son can go
and do humanitarian work in Cambodia
your son can get a job working in the
publishing industry doing editing of
nonfiction books your son can study a
whole bunch of languages and do
humanitarian work and do original
research and published peer-reviewed
articles your son can aspire to do all
those things and your daughter's can
also really this is a gender-neutral
thing okay but your daughters are 23
years old and what they're doing it
isn't just shameful it's a lot of people
do shameful stuff the internet none of
my business it's also bad for the vegan
movement which is why I came up briefly
in one of my videos long after you and I
had our discussion about her I continued
soy to digress guys so I resume he was
saying none of them talk or act like
this unemployed loser nearly all of my
friends from college run big companies
comma have successful careers and normal
relationships to other people period oh
yeah Jeff you know that's that's really
funny you should say that Jeff I don't
know have you ever been involved the
humanitarian project that handed sacks
of rice to starving people in a
third-world country have you ever done
that Jeff have you ever signed up for
humanitarian work where you literally
woke up in the morning chopped logs of
wood boiled your own lentils over a
[ __ ] wood fire you've gotta boil your
drinking water tubes doing and you you
know one of the things you do we also
did work so long-term improvement of a
long-term improvement of their ability
to farm food their ability to feed
themselves there were other aspects the
probably wasn't just sax parser have you
decided that Jeff has your daughter than
soda has your son I know you got money
Jeff
nobody's disputing that okay nobody is
debating whether or not Jeff Nelson has
got money what are you gonna do with it
okay given the level of wealth I was
born into my father had nine kids so in
some ways I had advantages and in some
ways I had disadvantages in many ways
the kind of poverty my family
experienced was temporary because it
wasn't linked to my parents earnings it
was linked the fact that my dad had so
many kids like if a bunch of the kids
are going to college at the same time
it's a ton of money right but I did I
did get to experience both miss being on
with you I got the experience was like
when my parents felt they had so much
money they didn't have to worry and I
got to experience what it was like when
my parents said they had no money and
they did have to worry I got to see both
and that was my parents perspective with
Rome finances however accurate or
inaccurate um but yeah you know what I
come from Canada and in Canada some of
our poorest and most oppressed people
who live in terrible conditions people
who have to go out and boil their
drinking water in a metal pail and carry
it home in the freezing cold are CREE
people a jib way people Mohawk people
okay the Mohawks are doing relatively
well okay wait Cree people a jib way
people den a people other indigenous
peoples of Canada shows the Mohawks I'm
just saying in terms of actually having
drinking water my impression is the
Mohawks is doing better in in terms of
that kind of access to basic services
okay I enroll at First Nations
University canada i enrolled in the
study of creating a jib where languages
i got i started to get involved with
humanitarian work and research projects
rid of those people so Jeff you are
reproaching me because unlike nearly all
of your friends nearly all of your
friends run big companies really well
you know what Jeff
maybe one of the reasons why I don't run
a big company it's because I never
wanted to with a little bit of money and
privilege I was born to in this world I
was interested in making a positive
difference and you can see that every
single stage of my life even though my
means are limited my family would not be
considered rich or wealthy in Toronto
not at all however if I go to a
reservation if I go to a Cree or a jib
way reservation in rural Saskatchewan
those people consider me wealthy rightly
or wrongly when I was going to small
towns in Cambodia was going to some
remote villages in Laos those people
considered me wealthy so I actually
let's keep it all the real I can
remember go around Scotland and some of
the people in Scotland thought I was
wealthy you know Scotland has poor
people too I don't know Jeff you really
think you're going to shame me by
talking about my failure to do run it
Jeff there are so many levels on which
this even though the point is defamation
in which obviously your own insecurities
about your own status as a leader in
veganism are shining through here so
Jeff's character assassination continues
dr. evil is 40 spends his day on YouTube
making long rants focused on young girls
lie and uses big words he doesn't
understand okay look Jeff point one why
this is a lie your daughters are not
young girls they're 23 years old they're
women I know what I was like a 23 years
old I was a monster I was an
intellectual monster at 23 years old to
say I was rough around the edges is an
understatement okay that's that's at
that age I had I had a lot of potential
but outside of short fuse I'm now very
reliable person in many
anyways and at 23 Frank I still had some
demons but I'm glad I mean it's always
I'm glad I was not on youtube at 23 you
know 23 I was a fully grown man
absolutely it was and people can join
the army most kinda join the army at 16
maybe join the army at 18 your daughters
are 23 years old they're not girls ok
secondly if you think my very brief
criticism of your daughters is briz is
overly castigating her harsh take a look
at my criticism of fully grown men take
a look at my criticism of Gary frenzy
Oni gary Yourofsky take a look at my
criticism of some of the the non vegans
on my channel let's see a sam Harris sam
Harris I think I was much more cruel to
sam Harris than any other man woman or
child talked about on my channel so yeah
some people in the crowd I'm live
streaming as I record this some of you
have fond memories of just how I laid
into Sam Aerith sure ok critique is part
of politics critique is also part of the
entertainment industry if you put your
daughter's into a position where they're
going to earn their living by playing
the guitar and singing and dancing or
going to audition as actresses there's
going to be a lot of criticism and a lot
of the criticisms would be much more
hearts than anything I said I still
stand by what I said completely
completely reasonable but anyway so
let's let's let's just reread that
sentence and the next sentence here from
the much respected Jeff Nelson dr. evil
is 40 spends his day on YouTube making
long rants focused on young girls and
uses big words he doesn't understand
period you don't have to have an Ivy
League education to understand what word
best describes the sky colon pervert
period okay so Jeff you just accused me
of being a pervert now alright sorry
this is not over I've got to continue
reading this gets into some serious
defamation it's all series defamation
why am i mentioning this now jeff has
just been lying very hypocritically
lying in trying to present himself as
morally superior to durianrider morally
superior to vegan cheetah morally
superior to all the people who engage in
trolling and a muckraking and lying and
insults in the internet and he also had
to shall we say moderate earlier
statements he made in support of drawing
which is interesting because he recalled
he he talked about a fictional persona
he's def the internet i think was
something captain beefeater captain
beefheart i forget um and he said he
clarified that while he approved of
certain types of trolling not other
types of trolling and he's made a really
kind of long involved convoluted one
hour video explained you why he is so
morally superior to all the other people
on the internet whom he's apparently
calling to account and you died Jeff
Jeff when the opportunity was there for
you to stand up and be counted when
thousands of people literally thousands
of people stood up to durianrider and
said no more you've crossed the line
Jeff you were not one of the people who
did that now he's alluding to that
history or very briefly he says he he's
saying izel was really frantic to get me
to make a video but a situation with
durianrider and i didn't take a bit it's
not true Jeff I never asked you to take
a stand that never I still don't want
you to because I think your content is
garbage because I have no respect for
you and I have no respect for your
channel so why would I ask you to it's
true that I made a broad you know call
to arms across the board everyone on
YouTube everyone on the internet
everyone who would hear me saying look
if we don't draw a line in the sand
against two things violence and
defamation who's going to do it if not
us then who if not now then when
all right there was a real crisis
because I got threats of violence and
serious defamation the internet all
kinds of people good new people who
didn't know me including some people who
hated me stood up and said we've got to
draw the line this far and no further uh
shout out to a privilege vegan privilege
vegan i believe hates my guts I think
she really dislikes me as a person and
partly due to misunderstanding but
partly fair enough sir perspective of me
privileged vegan made a video sporting
me right saying hey you know I ZOL izel
is in the right here during writer isn't
the wrong we should stand up and do
something shout out to her all kinds of
people never heard of stood up in a
state where they did it by email or a
video Jeff you were one of them do I
care no was I mad no months later you
made a bunch of insulting statements
against me on the internet insulting and
the fam ettore and untrue statements
over the internet and you behave as if
you made statements that made it seem as
if we'd been in contact you just said
things like oh well he never explained
this to me like what like people read
that and they assume we've been talking
like this you might we had a
conversation which I'd never it was not
true we never talked about we had never
had any contact I barely knew who you
were I recognized you from folk group
photographs where you were with other
vegans but like people said the name
Jeff Nelson Bevan didn't really ring
bells Jeff oh oh oh that guy okay you
I'm not a fan okay I've just never been
one of your fans and Jeff now you are
saying durianrider was one hundred
percent right I fully deserved what I
got from during writer so Jeff this is
at the same time that you have just made
a one hour video claiming you know
nobody should be threatened with
violence nobody should be defamed
trolling by this definition has got to
stop and you are guilty of the same
things you are a goddamn hypocrite of
the lowest possible order all right but
at that time to make a long story short
a lot of your fans Jeff we're asking you
to clarify why was it that you were
still supporting terrain writer and you
made a
a kind of halfway statement say well you
never really supported during murder and
now what I've just read is you one
hundred and ten percent supporting
durianrider and supporting him in the
worst excesses of his bad behavior it's
used supporting during writer in one his
use of threats threats of violence to
false criminal allegations three serious
defamation and of course you know what
happens to you you turn around and say
this has to stop now you're the one
saying Jeff that somebody needs to draw
the line I have a background in
political science my first university
degrees in political science so that
cares about politics watches politics I
believe politics matter my approach to
veganism is political um I think I do
have some positive and helpful advice to
offer my fellow vegans in handling a
situation like this what many of you may
not suspect when you look at this you
just see two people who hate each other
throwing insults at each other what you
may not see is how easy it is to turn a
situation like this around makes link+
to make it an opportunity for something
positive in the movement when you have a
conflict like this one of the most
useful techniques is to start by
affirming what the other person says and
then disagree with the content of what
they're saying not the particular words
someone who was great this technique was
Bill Clinton if you can remember Bill
Clinton in his prime in his heyday
somebody would say something uh so
insulting to Bill Clinton you'd ask a
question that's really an accusation
saying the bill clinton is guilty of
mass murder is guilty of an arms deal
that's morally equivalent to genocide
say something really really terrible to
Bill Clinton and Bill Clinton would look
them back straight in the eyes smiling
self confident relaxed and bilko say
them you know you make an important
point you know you ask a really good
question I'm really glad you asked that
now let me tell you something
another really important technique to
have in politics and I really felt
Donald Trump was lacking this is that
when you're dealing with a negative
situation being described a
confrontation conflict between two
people two countries two parties what
are the easiest things you can do to
turned around is shift to discuss
discussing the future so discuss a
currently negative conflict in terms of
the positive objectives the positive
prospects you have the future so someone
says to you well you know so let's say
someone says to Bill Clinton or Barack
Obama or somebody any political leader
somebody might say in this big leader
well look you know your relationship
with Russia is terrible you know you
have this problem that probably this
conflict that conflict you know what are
you going to do to deal with it you can
very easily turn that around by looking
at them sincerely and saying here's the
positive situation I want to see 20
years from now doesn't sound hostile it
doesn't say here's what I'm going to
force the Russians to do here's the
abuse here's my what is it Obama was
always talk about a red line here's the
red line if they if they do this bad
thing then there's going to be war not
in terms of negative definitions of this
kind not in terms of punitive actions
not in terms of threats we say you know
what it's a good question thank you for
asking you make a good point here's the
positive relation that you can just
switch to describing the positive
relationship you want to have with
Russia 20 years from now okay anybody
with a background in politics whether
it's Jeff Nelson or anybody else of the
situation you could have used these
techniques here what because what's the
point I mean what are you ash you're
wanting to accomplish where do you want
to be I don't know if he's going to be
alive 20 years here what's the future of
veganism 20 years from now is the future
of veganism all of us fighting over this
kind of nonsense is the future of
veganism us fighting about whether or
not vasectomies should be mandatory
whether or not driving a car or means
that you're an immoral person
or not it is possible to gain calories
by eating too much fresh fruit sorry
whether that it's possibly be body fat
by eating excessive fresh fruit not
calories you know um yeah you know what
I can respond negatively in the way
somebody like Obama does all too often
and talk about a red line a hard limit
something negative and you know what I
can also respond by saying hey you know
what I understand why you're making them
I understand why you're upset or I
understand why you're asking that tough
question here's where I want us to be
five years from now you know what five
years from now it sure would be a better
world if someone like Jeff Nelson and I
were on the same team right instead of
being on opposite teams and you can take
it from there and you can take that
conversation in any direction you can
imagine this is not what Jeff Nelson
does what Jeff Nelson does it is in
politic it is politically inept okay so
let's let's just finish a brilliant tour
de force character assassination
defamation from Jeff Nelson here so he's
just accused me of being a pervert and I
continue quote it's a good thing he
doesn't have access to young girls or
even to his own daughter given his weird
behavior and sick obsessions he's got
the whole sick Trump mindset that it's
okay to objectify females and talk about
their bodies I think it's good that his
wife and daughter don't live near him
and I hope he never gets custody and
Thank You Harley for speaking out
against this guy from the beginning
close quote so that is pretty serious
defamation from Jeff Nelson at exactly
the time when Jeff Nelson is claiming
he's so much morally superior to his
critics to the trolls that he's morally
spirit of holidays morally spirit of me
that he's morally superior to the people
who deigned to say criticize his
daughters videos for their sections was
go ahead look
he says my problem is my channel
objectifies females and talks about
their bodies the only thing I would need
to refute this as someone go to my
channel look at the list of videos and
scroll down it now i want to say i would
actually never I would never disregard
my youtubers whole output because they
have some videos that do objective five
females dug by the bodies the majority
of youtube channels have some videos
that really are just objectifying women
italian with their bodies whether it's
under the heading of health fitness
dating romance neither red have tons of
videos that do that but mean vegan gains
i remember ages ago vegan gains data did
a video where he was just talking about
who he finds hot and sexy within
veganism he mentioned other you know
females on youtube who do yoga
instruction videos he said oh yeah he
finds this one a try to that one you
know I some people would find that video
offensive does that mean that the vegan
gains that his intellectual output when
he makes a video where he's researched
the hell out of how cancer risk is
linked to eating eggs and drinking milk
does that mean is his whole all of his
content is worthless no I would not
dismiss him as a person or dismiss his
whole channel or dismiss his
significance for veganism terrorism if
you go to my channel I have over 500
videos I defy you to show me one that's
guilty of this but if so like I may have
forgotten when you made over 500 videos
you forget you know what I can own it do
you find one do you find 50 okay you
know what if I look back at them and I
think those videos all right I can
apologize I apologize to freely I'm
really concerned about the future of
veganism as a movement we just had a
situation in Canada with a green party
or ecological party tour itself apart
imploded because of
accusations about who was pro scientists
and he was anti Zionist within the Green
Party okay now I've said that was silly
for a bunch of reasons because for one
thing the Green Party of Canada they
can't possibly have any influence on
politics in Israel so it's a it's a
counterproductive thing veganism in 2016
these are the last few days of 2016
veganism in 2017 tearing itself apart
over who is and who isn't the misogynist
this way who is it who is it
objectifying female bodies okay as if
needed Aranda the link my body challenge
is not objective of you as if there
aren't a million health and fitness and
yoga channels and bikini channels at
beach beach vacation channels there are
so many channels than the vegan
demi-monde that do this and I ain't even
going to complain about that alright if
you think the reason to disregard my
content is because of my attitude
towards women in their bodies I my
problem is not that you choose to stop
watching my channel it's fine my content
is not for everybody my content is for a
small but passionate audience people who
really want to say for the world okay
people who for the sake of ecology and
the animals who are really motivated to
engage in long discussions about how can
we get organized alright that's
something you're not going to see on
Jeff's channel or on Nina and Randy's
channel not going to see it on during
rightist channel how can we get
organized to make a difference it's not
a question everybody wants to ask it's
not a question everyone says that's fine
but there is actually a broader and more
profound problem if everybody in the
movement is tearing each other down
because they perceive you as being
morally impure because some jackass
hypocrite lying [ __ ] like Jeff Nelson
made up the lie that you're a pervert
that you're a creep and he insinuated
that he made defamatory allegations this
is the movement tearing itself apart
over nothing
over nothing but your ego and your
shitty and securities Jeff and your
pathetic attempt at your 60s to live
like you're still a teenager your
pathetic attempt when your daughters are
23 if you to pretend they're still
teenagers this is really worse than the
Green Party tearing itself apart over
Israel over the israel-palestine
conflict right the Green Party of Canada
I mean at least that's an important
issue okay Jeff this is the delusion of
moral purity and I guess the thought
that everyone's got to be morally pure
to have a voice that matters and
veganism I guess that's the delusion hi
Jeff in this context of muckraking of
defamation etc and you're destroying the
vegan movement before it has a chance to
even get off the ground and you're not
thinking about where the movement is
going to be five years from now you're
not I wonder if you're thinking about
where your own kids are going to be five
years ago Jeff where do you think I'm
gonna be five years ago Jeff think about
it I badness yen I hope I'm not gonna be
in court with durianrider five years
from now but um let me tell you
something guys when I first did the
fundraiser people at first complained
that I wasn't asking for enough money I
should have asked for more and then what
later there was this sort of second
generation of complaints of people
saying that I asked for too much money
hahaha so what we've now I'd like almost
six months of litigation for 6500 US
dollars I think we got one hell of a
good deal out of my lawyer I think I
think we got a lot of legal services for
6500 US dollars I don't think anyone can
complain uh whether or not we win what
the outcomes are I don't know and you
know what I think my lawyer would agree
with that statement I think my lawyer is
shocked that this case has gone on
for so long and I think he never
imagined that we would still be here so
many months later without having the
first major hearing in court he has
spoken to several judges he has Nessus
had several court dates but the first
real hearing the first major hearing
still hasn't happened yet and that would
be the time after which the police would
officially want to arrest durianrider is
after that first major hearing um there
was an interesting milestone that one of
the questions I put to my lawyer early
on I'll give a little bit of Baxter here
you know when I spoke to lawyers in
Australia and they said look you know
durian writers normal way to play the
game is to pretend that he has no fixed
address to refuse to answer letters or
court summons is for during rider to try
to be to try to pretend that he's still
homeless basically to avoid being easily
pinned down by lawyers and police and by
tax-efficient this is what I was told so
they said you know it's very hard to get
an answer out of him what have you so
one of the questions I had my lawyer I
said look let me know when is the first
time that we have paperwork back from
durianrider you know that proves that
he's aware that this is a real case now
almost everyone ever doubted it was a
real case now already knows it's a real
case if they asked me or they asked to
see legal documents I've shared legal
docs and fairs people including the one
professional journalists who cover the
story to my knowledge they emailed me
and I gave them legal documents so
everybody wanted to know knows that
knows that it's legit it's real but
during a writer has continued to pretend
that either this isn't a real court
proceeding or that to his knowledge it
is not a real court procedure em as of
November 2016 we got paperwork back we
got paperwork back from durianrider
and/or his lawyers so he himself or his
lawyers in his behalf or both but I
believe he was signed paperwork related
to the case that was sent back to us
so it is a fact at the I think he knew
many months before but at the absolute
latest in November of 2016 durianrider
knew absolutely knew that the court case
was real and the legal proceedings
against them were real ongoing okay now
we live in interesting times I remember
a few years ago Obama was confronted by
a journalist questioned by journalists
about his use of drones to kill people
overseas in targeted killings and
assassinations by drones were these
small unmanned aircraft okay and I
remember to me it was very chilling
Obama's reply was the worst kind of lie
because he he SAT there and he said
whatever you heard about those drones
that has not been confirmed or if it has
been confirmed it has not been confirmed
by me and he went on to make other
statements of this kind which basically
meant I'm not going to lie to you but
I'm also not going to tell you the truth
and it really struck me I thought wow we
are now living in an era where the
concept of personal responsibility and
personal accountability is so badly
eroded that nobody is even going to look
to this guy nobody is going to look to
obama and say you know the buck stops
here now again not even debating whether
or not he should use Predator drones I I
think there is actually on the millet I
think a better president could make a
convincing argument that using Predator
drones is better than carpet bombing is
better than other forms of bombing it's
better than using the atomic bomb it's
better than destroying the whole city
this kind of think there is an
interesting debate to be had about
whether or not or what would be the
ethical use of predator owns maybe it is
actually better than other military
tactics that for example United States
used in Vietnam it's better than using
land mines and all kinds of things
there's an interesting to be together
but we can't even have that debate if
you don't admit the decision you already
made if you don't come clean with that
first step and say yes this is United
States policy now let's talk about if
it's good or bad now let's talk about
the consequences now let's talk about
strategy and tactics and outcomes and
let's talk about where we want to be 10
years from now because 10 years from now
we don't want to still be fighting the
Iraq war right durianrider if you care
about the vegan movement you should have
had the integrity whether three months
ago six months ago or six days ago to
come on YouTube and say that you were
wrong to say that because before I
thought you were just joking to my
knowledge you were just joking but
whether you were joking or trolling or
not you have maintained that you never
heard from any lawyer or police or court
authority that you were unaware that
this was real and now I know for a fact
I know that you know that it's real I
think you've known for many months okay
is it good or bad or are you guilty or
not guilty sure you go to jail or not I
think those are still debates to be had
I think the significance of all this I
think it really is the beta 1 i'm in
other videos talking about that right in
a sense we can't progress we can't move
forward we can't even have those debates
until you admit what you did wrong what
you've been lying about and to refer
back to what I said earlier I mean if
you go back a few chapters in this story
it would have been so easy for someone
enduring about his position to spin this
into something really positive using
exactly the techniques that I mentioned
you could say hey you know what that's a
good question that's a good point now
let me tell you something I'm going to
respond to the substance the real
content of what you're saying and not to
just the words you can come back to it
and say look like it would have been the
easiest thing in the world for
durianrider especially before this s
going too far for durianrider to
apologize for threatening with with
violence he could have apologized for
saying he was going to take me to the
cops and put me in jail
palio same is going to be beaten in the
streets could have apologized for
calling me a pedophile and all these
other it's not the only allegation yeah
he made up totally false allegations
that I was kicked out of a vegan group
in Quebec I've never lived in Quebec I
was living in the west coast was living
thousands of miles away it was sorry a
very very long distance away from Quebec
at the time but I was kicked out of a
vegan group in Quebec because of my
sexual relations so many women serious
terrible allegations generator at any
point you could have come out and said
you know what I'm sorry that was wrong
here's what I want to do in the next
five years here's where I want us to all
be five years ago because during writer
I don't know where you're going to be
five years from now but unless you kill
me you know i'm not going to disappear
you know i'm still going to be pursuing
the form of ethical activism the form of
politically engaged veganism that you've
been seeing me do on youtube for all
these years all right and maybe that's
really going to matter to a few hundred
people because i'm actually not out here
pursuing Fame yes the other point I want
to come back to you maybe it's good now
maybe this team the concluding point of
the video you know it's a powerfully
distorting thing that so many people
there either sleepwalking into this
debate over what is the future of
veganism going to be or that they're
doing it in pursuit of fame someone like
vegan cheetah someone like Jeff Nelson
in my opinion similar during writer
money fame etc notoriety okay if someone
were to ask me am I so different am I
not am I also pursuing Fame one of the
reasons when my answer is no you can
find in a great video I did I think a
year ago now or maybe seven months ago
I'll give the link below this video the
great video did that has elitism in the
title and you know it's about elitism
partly video action is very positive and
optimistic message if only 100 people in
Canada know who i am and know what I'm
trying to accomplish in veganism I could
be completely happy with that if they're
the right 100 people
what do I mean by that look at any
specific legal change like the group of
people who got together in your country
to try to change the labeling on
cigarettes so the cigarettes had a
different warning do you think 5,000
people got organized to that it's quite
possible in your country it was a
hundred people it was quite possible it
was less than a hundred people all right
and the if judgment local level
provincial City Hall local level not
federal level not national level 50
people if they're the right people in a
good organization can make a tremendous
difference okay so i'm actually not
pursuing Fame I'm pursuing real
organization with other activists as a
video discusses in a sense is it elitist
yes because if you ask me well who are
the right people my answer is not
durianrider okay my answer is people who
can get together get organized work hard
whether that's at City Hall or in the
Board of Education provincial Parliament
federal parliament you name it but
actually that is a really deep sense in
which I am different from durianrider
and Jeff Nelson to her many many other
differences between us why did we start
this in the first place court cases
durianrider as I said from the start
nobody can guarantee you outcomes the
only thing we can guarantee is that
you're doing the right thing for the
right reasons and that's why I invited
you guys to donate that's why I budge
you guys to join this slow-moving
bureaucratic adventure with me was to
draw a line in the sand and say no more
I think it has already had an impact I
don't know Wendy reminder founded it was
real um I think several months ago right
after I made the video talking about his
passport number the Thai authorities did
get in touch did get his passport I
assume they got that from border control
blah blah blah but I assume at that time
at the latest he would have known it was
real so I don't know exactly when he
found out it was real but he has other
legal proceedings against him that he
knows her real so I don't know if he was
always just joking
around or if he ever sincerely had doubt
about that whether or not durianrider
was ever sincere in claiming to you that
he doubted the reality of my case he
could have been trolling all along he
could have just been doing it as a joke
in front of games that was the
impression I had but if if he at one
time was deceived into thinking my legal
proceedings against him were fake
doesn't really matter I think we can
really say that calling together vegans
under this banner vegans against
violence and information it has already
drawn a line in the sand two of the
people who got the message kind of late
where Jeff Nelson and during writer
today Jeff Nelson is hypocritically
enough dishonestly enough Jeff Nelson is
calling for a line in the sand against
violence and defamation he has his own
problems with threats of violence and
defamation well Jeff you're a little bit
late to the party you could have taken
the right position you could have taken
a stand on point of principle a long
time ago you could have opposed
durianrider on this instead of approving
of durianrider but nevertheless you're
welcome to join the party if you also
now want to take a stand on point of
principle and oppose violence and
defamation why don't you start by
apologizing for your own defamation by
making a very clear resolution that you
will not sink to those kinds of
defamatory tag is that we just saw I
just read out an example of you using
that kind of defamation against me
nevertheless I can remember that for a
period of I think more than one year on
the Internet durianrider was very
self-confident Lee and callously
describing himself as the world's most
effective vegan activist durianrider
claimed he committed to heavily the
concept that he and freely were the most
effective vegan activist in the world
and for a time that was taken seriously
today I think I can say to you with no
irony although there's no way to
guarantee we'll win in court all it
takes is one judge to look at these
charges and maybe even look at how long
it's taken and dismiss them and say look
I'm sorry you have no standing so look
I'm sorry your case has no merit that's
it that's the end of the case think
about the meanings of the words in
English you plead your case you go to a
court of law you plea
need you ask the authorities to serve
justice unto you there are a lot of
other problems in Thailand Google thai
politics 2016 a lot of things are going
on in Thailand there are a lot of other
things the establish would be concerned
about you go you present the facts of
the case in my case you also have to pay
to have everything translate it from
English into thai and have the
translations legally proven to be valid
you make your case and you say to the
authorities please deliver me some
justice you plead for it but believe me
it's totally possible that even without
during right are proving his innocence
the court says may doesn't meet this
standard doesn't pass this test we're
not going to press charges we're not
going to pursue a case for you same
thing with pleading your case before the
Crown Prosecution Service in England
nobody can guarantee you outcomes what
you can guarantee is that you're doing
the right thing for the right reasons
and I can tell you one very real outcome
is that i do not see durianrider saying
anymore that he is the most effective
activist in the world and if he did say
that today he might respond to this
video tomorrow by making a new video on
youtube which he doubles down on his
claim that he during writer is still the
most effective activist in the vegan
world I think he would be laughed at
with scorn across the board alright so
that is a real change Jeff Nelson I
think he doesn't realize the extent to
which he too is being laughed at with
scorn across the board all right and I
as I was saying a few minutes ago only
when you can acknowledge the problem
only when you can confront the problem
head-on then we can really start asking
okay well what is the most effective way
for us to be engaged in fig u'd activism
because that's a question I've asked
again and again on this channel and I
reflect on for many different angles I
think for different people they're going
to be different answers different
solutions etc etc but we do already have
one very meaningful outcome from the
case which is that I think we've
destroyed many of the core illusions of
the rato for cult I think we've
witnessed in some ways of course it's
just a coincidence at the same time
during writers relationship with freely
fell apart oh
of dark personal secrets were exposed
there were all these other dramatic
events surrounding it that we're not
they were not the cause of my legal case
Durham writer and they were not caused
by my legal case during order but
nevertheless the fact that thousands of
people stood up and donated money to
draw this line in the sand and say
here's the line no further it can be a
positive turning point for veganism and
I think invisibly thousands of people
got the message Jeff Nelson is not one
of them vegan cheetah is not one of them
some of the most vocal and visible
people in the movement have taken the
exact opposite message some people have
concluded that the way for them to
become famous is to imitate durian
writers worst excesses okay but there is
a silent majority of people who are
watching this with their arms crossed
and they know that durian writers act is
played out I have no idea and I have no
idea where veganism is going to be five
years ago there's really a set it's
unpredictable I couldn't have predicted
any of the stuff I could have predicted
vasectomies being the debate of the
decade I couldn't have predicted
bicycles you know all this crazy
nonsense it's to say it's unpredictable
is an understatement right the permanent
vacation paradigm a castration of dogs
need and drinking honey or whatever I'm
you know taco bell gate you know one
thing after another yeah you know what
there's a sense in which i can say
veganism is still really unpredictable
and I don't know what direction it's
going in but the one thing I do know is
that it's not going backwards you can't
put the genie back in the bottle we're
not going to miss repeat the same
mistakes of the past and durianrider you
were a mistake a small number of people
like Jeff Nelson failed to learn the
lessons from that mistake that we've all
seen that in this video but there's a
much larger number of people who can
learn that lesson and who can now make
some kind of positive change and some
kind of positive progress in veganism as
movement and for those of us who think
about veganism as a movement that's also
a way out of all this meaningless drama
and chasing of Fame or lifestyle
activism because I'm not trying to make
a positive difference by reaching a huge
number of people by reaching a huge
audience by building up my status as an
entertainer or a comedian or a bikini
model or anything else i know that for
me to make a positive difference in the
country where i have citizenship where i
have a passport canada for me to make a
difference in canada all i need maybe
500 people but they've got to be the
right people and that's why i commit
this time thank you Jeff Nelson for
calling me a loser etc etc that's why
I'm not doing the male equivalent of the
lick my body challenge I'm not doing
salacious meaningless videos like so
many other people on YouTube because for
me it's about meeting the right people
with the right motivations and then
sitting down working on a methodology
for we can really make a positive change
in our own countries of origin if you're
one of those people hit me up